Credits
=======

Code written/cobbled together from snippets found on the Web by David Lukeš,
2013\. You may redistribute and modify it all you like, provided that you make
the source code of your modified versions openly available on the Web. Giving
credit is appreciated but not required :)

Disclaimer
==========

**PraatEdit is not in any way associated with the program Praat or its makers,
Paul Boersma and David Weenink.** Its shortcomings and failures are entirely my
own and should not reflect negatively on the great piece of software that is
Praat.

This project was undertaken as part of an introductory course on Java, by
someone who has little to no prior experience with GUI programming. I know I got
in way over my head, and the code is correspondingly ugly, non-idiomatic or just
plain wrong in places. If you edit it using NetBeans and its helper features,
it's marginally less of a mess, but one can't hide it's more of an overgrown
hack rather than a full-fledged, well-behaved, cleanly architectured project.
Still, if you find PraatEdit to your liking and it works for you, great! Please
just remember that, as the GNU GPL says, the program is provided  "'as is'
without warranty of any kind, expressed or implied, including, but not limited
to, the implied warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular
purpose."

Warning
=======

PraatEdit is a toy text editor, not an industrial strength one like Vim. It's
meant for editing small Praat scripts, a couple of hundred lines is the largest
file I've tried to open. Don't try to open humongous files in it, they'll
definitely take too long to parse, and who knows, worse things yet might happen.

Description, Features & Known Bugs
==================================

PraatEdit is a simple script editor with syntax highlighting (sort of) for the
Praat speech analysis software environment. It is meant as an alternative to the
built-in editor, and thanks to Paul Boersma's program sendpraat, it also allows
the user to directly execute their Praat script from within the application,
provided that an instance of Praat is running. Other features and/or known bugs
include:

* keyboard shortcuts for commenting out/uncommenting or indenting/unindenting a
  piece of code
* auto-indenting
* search and replace with regular expressions, but be careful and save often, I
  didn't have the time to test it extensively yet (Regular expressions work only
  in Find box. Furthermore, currently, the Replace box doesn't support capturing
  parentheses. It does support the following escape sequences: \n, \r, \t.)
* tabs are automatically replaced with spaces (yep, that's not a bug)
* settings persistent across sessions
* undo/redo support is currently very (VERY) crude, but hey, it can only get
  better
* (known disadvantage) as of now, a larger script might take a while to load
  (2-3s), partly due undoubtedly to some suboptimal code, partly to the fact
  that the syntax highlighter currently parses the whole file before displaying
  it; I'd really like to get around to fixing that, but I can't promise anything

Setup
=====

1. Download the repository in a zipped file either by pressing the ZIP button
   with a cloud at the [top of the page](#), or clicking
   [here](https://github.com/dafydd-lukes/PraatEdit/archive/master.zip).
2. Extract the PraatEdit-master/dist subdirectory to the folder of your choice
   on your hard drive. NOTE: You need the whole folder, i.e. including any
   subfolders.
3. If you don't want to play around with the source code, you don't need any of
   the other files.
4. If you want to send your scripts to a running instance of Praat to execute,
   consult the section [Sendpraat](#sendpraat).
5. Run the program by double-clicking on PraatEdit.jar in the dist folder, or by
   opening a command line, changing directory to the folder where PraatEdit.jar
   is located and executing `java -jar PraatEdit.jar`. (If double-clicking
   doesn't work by default on your platform, Google should be able to help you
   out.)

Troubleshooting
===============

1. PraatEdit not working/crashing gracelessly? Try upgrading to a more recent
   version of Java (and make sure Oracle doesn't smuggle the obnoxious Ask
   Toolbar into your browser in the process). PraatEdit was tested on Ubuntu
   12\.04 and Windows 7 with Java 1.7.
2. The text of your script looks weird, with interspersed spaces, unrecognized
   characters etc.? It was probably saved in UTF-16, UTF-32 or some other
   unusual encoding. Please convert it to ASCII, UTF-8 or your current locale.
   You can also re-save it in ASCII/UTF-8 using Praat's built-in editor.
3. If your OS is a flavor of GNU/Linux and double-clicking PraatEdit.jar doesn't
   start the program, make sure the file's executable flag is on (`chmod a+x
   PraatEdit.jar` in the file's directory in the terminal).
4. Should one of your files be corrupted following to an unexpected crash, the
   first thing to do is to go to the backup version you're keeping (aren't
   you?). The next thing to do is to check the directory where the corrupted
   file was stored for a backup file written by PraatEdit. Its name is the same
   as the original file, with an extra tilde ("~") appended.
5. Experiencing behavior that you're pretty confident is not a feature, but a
   bug? Let me know via github (preferably with exact steps to replicate)!
6. Do let me know in particular if you notice a possible improvement/correction
   regarding syntax highlighting. I'm not an expert on the arcana of the Praat
   scripting language, so this can easily happen, and chances are it'll be a
   quick fix.
7. Something really weird going on? Run PraatEdit from the commandline, round up
   any error messages that may appear and let me know about them via github.

<a id="sendpraat"></a>Sendpraat
===============================

For PraatEdit to be able to send the contents of your script to Praat to run,
you need to have the program `sendpraat` located in your home folder (in
addition to [Praat itself](http://www.fon.hum.uva.nl/praat/), of course). To
ensure that, follow these steps:

1. Download Paul Boersma's program
   [`sendpraat`](http://www.fon.hum.uva.nl/praat/sendpraat.html).
2. Make sure the program is called *precisely* `sendpraat` (or `sendpraat.exe` on
   Windows); if not, rename it to `sendpraat` (or `sendpraat.exe` on Windows).
3. Put it in your home folder (e.g. `/home/username/` on GNU/Linux or
   `C:\Users\username\` on Windows).
4. On GNU/Linux, make sure that sendpraat has the executable flag on (e.g. by
   running `chmod a+x sendpraat` in your home directory).

Note for programmers
====================

If you're considering modifying PraatEdit to improve its performance, that would
be great, but let me kindly suggest a better use of your time: write a Praat
syntax highlighting file for Vim, and a function which sends the content of the
buffer to Praat via `sendpraat`. And let me know when it's available, 'cause I'd
love to use it!  There's no need to reinvent the wheel (I did it because I
needed a class project), and Vim's the best wheel around, as we all know ;)
